+++
date = 2008-09-18T22:07:00.000Z
title = "A Bit of a Problem"
draft = false
+++
Let’s talk about UI for a second, shall we?

I do a lot of stuff on the web. I view a lot of content in the average
day, I follow a lot of links. Frequently the sites I go to need me to
sign in to see something or do something. That’s fine, nominally.

The problem begins after I’ve signed in. Let’s take Flickr as an
example. Some of the blogs I follow occasionally post pictures that
aren’t entirely appropriate for those of a youthful mind. If I follow
them back to Flickr, Flickr asks me to sign in to see them, as a way of
insuring that little kiddies or those of delicate bearing don’t get all
in a huff. As I said, this is just dandy. So I sign in, Flickr
determines I’m an adult, and I see [the questionable
image](http://www.flickr.com/photos/katiewest/2458048075/in/photostream/).

Except I don’t. No, instead Flickr directs me to my home page, as the
default location for someone who has just logged in. Now, I have to
click back twice to get to the image’s page, and then refresh to get the
image. Flickr has just told me to login to see it, then when I do login
I don’t see it, I see my home page. This is less than ideal.

The appropriate behavior would be to take me back to the page *which
inspired my need/desire to login*. I would say that the vast majority of
the time, users log in at the page they’re interested at—either to see
protected content, take an action on that page like leaving a comment,
or otherwise to deal with an idea on that page. If they were interested
in immediately going to their home page, they would login at that url or
at the main page. You don’t go to
<http://www.flickr.com/photos/katiewest/2458048075/in/photostream/> if
you want to sign into your account. You go there because you want to see
one of Katie West’s photos. Likewise, you don’t go to
<http://twitter.com/jaycee> to login to twitter. You go there to see who
this jaycee person is and follow him or unfollow or block him.

So developers. Please. *Don’t take me away from where I’m trying to do
something.\
*

(**Update 9.20.2008:** The twitter example seems to have been made moot
with their last upgrade. Go twitter dev team!)
