+++
date = 2010-11-30T03:12:00.000Z
title = "Better Living through Effort"
draft = false
+++
In 1993 I was diagnosed with severe ADHD. While my family elected to put
me on prescription drugs for a while they were largely a stop gap while
we figured out other ways to cope. Exercise is an obvious solution, and
was employed liberally. But the most important thing my parents helped
me cultivate by way of dealing with the disorder was a spirit of
mindfulness.

This is not to say that I consider myself some sort of focused monk;
that mindfulness is a constant challenge, and has only become moreso as
the world has offered greater means of distracting me. Perhaps as a
response to this I find that I seek out a more deliberate way of doing
things. As an example, Heather and I don’t use drip coffee; I make
French Press, every morning. I like the slow, deliberate process, and
find that it helps me start my morning the right way. There’s also the
fact that it tastes better, but interestingly it turns out [that may be
because of the effort and
deliberateness](http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2010/11/why-making-dinner-is-a-good-idea/)
of the task.

I’m trying to find other ways to bring in this sort of methodical,
deliberate, *hard* way of doing things. I’ve felt more scatterbrained in
the last year, and as a counterbalance to that I need to ramp up my
focus. And it turns out, there’s a decent chance that focusing on
process and the doing of things may do more than help my scatterbrained
issues—[it may make me
happier](http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2010/11/why-making-dinner-is-a-good-idea/)
too.

I think this can be considered the beginning of more work for me in the
coming year. I invite you to join me.
