+++
date = 2011-09-29T13:44:00.000Z
title = "The Problem of Reblogging"
draft = false
+++
I have been against reblogging for a very long time. While this has
occasionally been interpreted as not wanting other people to reblog my
posts, it’s actually an unwillingness to reblog other people’s posts,
combined with a general dislike of the tumblr-specific version of
reblogging in general.

Been there, done that
---------------------

This all stems from livejournal.

I had [an account](http://shentou.livejournal.com) from 2002 to 2009.
During that time, while people occasionally used livejournal as a
general blogging platform, it was mostly an internally facing community.
Livejournal had a lot of extra functions enabled that only worked for
doing things within itsself. You could lock down posts to particular LJ
users. You could link directly to another LJ by using a person’s name
(not unlink in google plus). The net effect was that Livejournal rapidly
developed its own community focused entirely within Livejournal. Which
was fine, such as it was, but isn’t necessarily the most web friendly
approach.

Within a few years, Livejournal was largely a segregated internet
community; you linked out occasionally, but you were seldom linked to.
The majority of people reading anything you wrote were people on your
friends list, rather than just anyone who wanted to grab your RSS feed
or visit your page.

Breaking the web
----------------

The net effect, to me and others, was that Livejournal started breaking
how the blogging ecosystem worked. Linking is a key part of how good
content gets elevated, both in terms of eyeballs seeing it and in terms
of content [ranking systems](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PageRank).

Done well, reblogging can do this; but done poorly, it mostly just
creates noise as it messes up attribution to the original source. In the
initial rollout of the reblog feature, it became impossible to figure
out what the initial source of something was. And with all those links
to *everyone* who had reblogged something, less intelligent ranking
systems got messed up.

Turning inwards
---------------

So it was with a lot of trepidation that I saw the growing “community”
features of tumblr. Reblogging, liking, and the horde of tumblr based
memes (like the animal wars or color wars that took over for a few
weeks). It all felt like something I had seen before. And while it’s
great for the people who want that sort of community, for those of us
that like the platform as a place to just *blog*, there was a good
chance that the system wasn’t going to work out so well for us.

I resolved to continue linking to other sites as I had before; I didn’t
care for reblogging or “liking”, and I wasn’t going to use it.

No need to fear
---------------

Eventually though, one realizes one is worrying about something that
isn’t going to pass, and just being a bit of an ass. Reblogging and
liking can still generate a *lot* of noise, but tumblr has sorted things
out so that said noise doesn’t screw up anything for people who don’t
care about it. They’ve committed to supporting custom domains and the
needs of people less interested in tumblr as a community and more
interested in it as a platform.

So, will I reblog now? The question has largely been taken out of my
hands. An update to the tumblr bookmarklet now turns shares from other
tumblr sites into reblogs. So whether I like it or not, reblogging is
how I will be sharing things from other tumblr sites. I suppose I am
still lukewarm on reblogging as a tumblr mechanism, but at least I don’t
*hate* it.
