+++
date = 2009-12-24T03:12:00.000Z
title = "Toy City"
draft = false
+++
I live in a toy city.

I know that sounds unforgivably insulting, but bear with me.

Durham is a wonderful place. I love living here, and can’t easily
imagine myself living elsewhere. But the fact remains that the city’s
metropolitan trappings are largely in a class somewhere beneath those of
bigger cities. ‘Duh,’ is probably your reaction—but I don’t simply mean
they are smaller; they are generally proportionately poorer in their
provisions than the their larger-city equivalents.

While a number of city services and infrastructure can be pointed at as
an example, I’m put into particular mind of this by DATA, the Durham
Area Transit Authority. For years, the bus infrastructure here has been
problematic: there weren’t enough busses, weren’t enough bus drivers,
weren’t enough mechanics to keep the few operational busses from
breaking down. The various routes had insufficient crossover, and the
only place where they did all meet—the central station—was a shack.

Durham undertook addressing that last complaint recently, and to their
credit, the new central station is really nice. But all the other
complaints still stand, and of them all the station was the least
important.

The problem seems to be one of demographics. Durham has no—or very
little—middle class. The city is largely split between a rich, educated
upper class and a substantially poorer, comparatively less educated
class. The latter group are the primary users of the city
infrastructure. While Durham benefits from this groups relatively high
political participation, they seem to lack the ability to bring pressure
to bear in the ways available to the upper classes.

The upper class by contrast could effect some substantial change, but
not enough of it cares—who uses the bus, after all?

A stronger middle class—a group that bridges the gap between consistent
use of the infrastructure and the ability to influence the direction
that infrastructure develops in—is something Durham really needs to
escape its ‘toy’ status. I think it’s headed in that direction, but it
has a long way to go. I look forwards to seeing it develop.
