+++
date = 2010-11-14T05:28:00.000Z
title = "Writing"
draft = false
+++
I am shit at writing.

Complete shit.

In school I was led to believe that I could write, but I couldn’t. What
I could do was string vocabulary words together while following a
formula dictated by that year’s teacher. I put lots of words on lots of
paper, but I never said much. Certainly never anything I cared about.

That’s not writing.

Writing is facing down a blank page and beating an idea into a shape
worth sharing. I can’t do that consistently, and I can’t do it well.
What I have been doing is letting the teeniest snippets of text get out
while I throw out most with the rationalization that I’m “editing” when
all I’m doing is not finishing anything.

This is a problem for me, because I’ve always identified as a ‘writer’,
and yet I don’t write. This blog, ostensibly a platform for writing, has
become about link sharing with no real ideas of my own.
[Patches](http://thepatches.tumblr.com), who has claimed to me that he
isn’t a writer, has done more writing than I have in years.

On my computer there is a folder named “Writing.” It has a dozen half
started pieces in it. I haven’t touched half of them since 2005. I have
not touched any of the others since 2009, save one 10 page work that
took me 2 years of half-assing to get to a point I declared “finished.”

Enough is enough.

November is a month when a lot of people begin writing projects as part
of NaNoWriMo. I have no notion of engaging fully in that pursuit—my
writing muscles are too clumsy, and my time is too dear. But I am using
this month as a starting point in getting those muscles into shape, and
seeing what time can be found for it. My intention is to write something
of decent length for a small column each week. I have no idea what. Most
of it, I’m certain, will be crap. But the only way to get better at this
is to do it.

I’m shit at writing.

But I can get better.
