+++
date = 2018-11-27
title = "Unfollow"
subtitle = "A semi-dramatic solution to twitter. For me. Probably not for you."
+++

It's been said often enough: twitter is toxic.

That's not a complete story--there's a lot of value in twitter and other
social media platforms. Properly tuned it can be a useful tool and a good
place to reach out to others. In the past, for me, it's been a great resource
to expose me to the opinions and voices of people different from me.

Buuuuut....

My mental health is sometimes dicey. Without going into particulars depression
is something everyone in my family is susceptible too, and with my wife's and
my therapist's help I found that I was starting to slide into a bad spot.
There's a lot of factors to that, but honestly, the endless stream of stuff
from twitter was not helping. We decided to embark on an experiment to change
things a little.

I didn't want to give up twitter--setting all the good above aside, it's also
a way I stay in touch with a number of good friends. But I needed to
*drastically* reduce my use of it and the amount of stuff it was bringing into
my life. Unfollowing basically everyone was clearly the solution.

I threw together some scripts to help with that:
[unfollow](https://github.com/jaycee/unfollow) is a few bash scripts managed
with `make` to backup your current timeline and then unfollow anyone. You can
also build a list of people you don't want to unfollow if you're not nuking
everything from orbit.

It undoubtedly has issues, so use at your own risk, and I guess PRs are
welcome? That is, if you even want to use it--like I said, I'm not saying
twitter is without value, and you might very well be quite happy with how
things are going on it for your timeline. But if you aren't, here's a tool to
help.

In my case, since reducing my timeline to just handful of people, I've found
that my mood has generally improved, and those around me agree.
